Rework OLIQ and LP rewards so we don't have exploding volumes because of prob of trading scaling (#1438)
vegaprotocol/specs: protocol/0038-OLIQ-liquidity_provision_order_type.md

Steps:

> 1. From the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate:

Reviewer: Just to confirm, is that a parameter of the market (as in an input as part of the governance proposal) or a network parameter?

Author: I've updated the statement - this is now 100% clear that it's market parameter.

> 1. From the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate:

Reviewer 2: Not sure where we specify, but I assume we want this parameter amendable with a market update (assuming it's a market parameter) right?

Author: Yes, I've updated the text.

> 1. From the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate:

Author: ```suggestion
1. From the market parameter - to be set as part of [market proposal](0028-GOVE-governance.md)  `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate:
```

> 1. From the market parameter - to be set as part of [market proposal](0028-GOVE-governance.md)  `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate:

Reviewer 3: I think this implies a governance spec change too?

Author: I checked; the governance spec for market changes only lists the immutable fields, but not all the mutable ones, so we're fine.

Steps:

> 1. From the [price monitoring module](./0032-PRIM-price_monitoring.md#view-from-quant-library-side) get the tightest `min_price_mon_price` and `max_price_mon_price`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> From the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate 

Reviewer 5: This may force them to go in front of the best bid/ask - do we mind? I think it's fine, should result in better functioning markets.

Author: Yes, I think that's ok / desirable. 

And if you were pegging to mid previously you could have also placed your volume in front of best bid / ask.

> From the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. From the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which is a percentage price move (e.g. `0.05 = 5%` and from `mid_price` calculate:
```

```

> min_lp_vol_price = max(min_price_mon_price, (1.0 - market.liquidity.volumeRange) x mid_price)

Reviewer 5: I think this needs to be extended to cover cases when mid itself is outside the valid price monitoring range and the `volumeRange` is too small.  

Say:
`market.liquidity.volumeRange`= 0.05,
`min_price_mon_price`=90
`max_price_mon_price`=110
`mid_price`=80

Then we have:
`min_lp_vol_price` = max(90,0.95 x 80)=90
`max_lp_vol_price`=min(110,1.05 x 80)=84

So we get: `min_lp_vol_price`  > `max_lp_vol_price`.

Maybe we have to accept that sometimes the model will be out of whack with the market, so we just do [1.0 - `market.liquidity.volumeRange`,1.0 + `market.liquidity.volumeRange`] and accept that sometimes orders will be in a territory that will lead to the auction.

Author: We agreed with @barnabee to get rid of the price monitoring bounds and let LPs "hide" behind the bounds if market is moving fast.

> min_lp_vol_price = max(min_price_mon_price, (1.0 - market.liquidity.volumeRange) x mid_price)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
min_lp_vol_price = (1.0 - market.liquidity.volumeRange) x mid_price
```

``` 
and 
```

> max_lp_vol_price = min(max_price_mon_price, (1.0 + market.liquidity.volumeRange) x mid_price).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
max_lp_vol_price = (1.0 + market.liquidity.volumeRange) x mid_price
```

```

1. Calculate `liquidity_obligation`, as per calculation in the [market making mechanics spec](./0044-LIME-lp_mechanics.md).

> 1. Subtract from the value obtained from step-1 the amount of the `liquidity_obligation` that is being fulfilled by any persistent orders the liquidity provider has on the book at this point in time that are between and including `min_lp_vol_price` and `max_lp_vol_price`. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. The `liquidity_obligation` calculated as per [LP mechanics](0044-LIME-lp_mechanics.md). Some of it may be fulfilled by persistent orders the liquidity provider has on the book at this point in time that are between and including `min_lp_vol_price` and `max_lp_vol_price`. 
```

> The contribution is `volume x price`. 

Author: ```suggestion
The contribution is `volume x price`; sum up the contribution across the relevant side of the book and subtract it from `liquidity_obligation` obtained above. 
```

#### Calculating volumes for a set of market making orders (step 6):

> Any shape entry with a peg less than `min_lp_vol_price` should have the resulting volume implied at `min_lp_vol_price` (instead of what the level the peg would be) while any shape entry with peg greater than `max_lp_vol_price` should have the resulting volume implied at `max_lp_vol_price`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any shape entry with a peg less than `min_lp_vol_price` should have the resulting volume implied at `min_lp_vol_price` (instead of what level the peg would be) while any shape entry with peg greater than `max_lp_vol_price` should have the resulting volume implied at `max_lp_vol_price`. 
```

Given the price peg information (`peg-reference`, `number-of-units-from-reference`) and  `liquidity-normalised-proportion` we obtain the `probability_of_trading` at the resulting order price, from the risk model, see [Quant risk model spec](./0018-RSKM-quant_risk_models.ipynb). 
Use `best static bid-price` or `best static ask-price` depending on which side of the book the orders are when getting the probability of trading from the risk model. 
Note that for volume pegged between best static bid and best static ask the probability of trading is `1` as per [Quant risk model spec](./0018-RSKM-quant_risk_models.ipynb).
Calculate the volume at the peg as 

``` volume = ceiling(liquidity_obligation x liquidity-normalised-proportion / probability_of_trading / price)```. 
``` volume = ceiling(liquidity_obligation x liquidity-normalised-proportion / price)```. 

where `liquidity_obligation` is calculated as defined in the [market making mechanics spec](./0044-LIME-lp_mechanics.md) and `price` is the price level at which the `volume` will be placed. 
At this point `volume` may have decimal places. 

> Note: if the resulting price for any of the entries in the buy / sell shape is outside the valid price range as provided by the price monitoring module (the min/max price that would not trigger the price monitoring auction per triggers configured in the market, see [price monitoring](./0032-PRIM-price_monitoring.md#view-from-quant-library-side) spec for details) it should get shifted to the valid price that's furthest away from the mid for the given order-book side. If the reference price itself is outside the valid price range the order should get placed at - when bid/ask is used as a reference, or one tick away from it - when mid is used as a reference.

Reviewer 5: This may still be needed depending on how we resolve my comment above.

- [ ] Volume implied by the liquidity provision order is that given by [0034-PROB-liquidity_measure.feature](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega/blob/develop/integration/features/verified/0034-PROB-liquidity_measure.feature) in all the various scenarios that test fractional order sizes (smallest order position of 0.01). (<a name="0038-OLIQ-002" href="#0038-OLIQ-002">0038-OLIQ-002</a>);
- [ ] If an LP order has offset set such that the resulting price falls outside `[min_lp_vol_price, max_lp_vol_price]` then the system adjusts it automatically so that it's placed on the bound (<a name="0038-OLIQ-011" href="#0038-OLIQ-011">0038-OLIQ-011</a>)

### LP commitment order creation
- [ ] A liquidity provisioning order must specify orders for both sides of the book (<a name="0038-OLIQ-003" href="#0038-OLIQ-003">0038-OLIQ-003</a>)
- [ ] All orders created by an LP commitment must be pegged orders (<a name="0038-OLIQ-004" href="#0038-OLIQ-004">0038-OLIQ-004</a>)

> - [ ] Filled orders are replaced immediately to confirm to the LP commitment shapes (<a name="0038-OLIQ-005" href="#0038-OLIQ-005">0038-OLIQ-005</a>)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [ ] Filled orders are replaced immediately to conform to the LP commitment shapes (<a name="0038-OLIQ-005" href="#0038-OLIQ-005">0038-OLIQ-005</a>)
```

> - [ ] Change of the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which decreases the value will immediately tighten `[min_lp_vol_price, max_lp_vol_price]` and volume that was previously pegged inside the valid range and would now be outside is shifted to the bounds.   (<a name="0038-OLIQ-012" href="#0038-OLIQ-012">0038-OLIQ-012</a>)

Reviewer 5: In
> Change of the market parameter `market.liquidity.volumeRange` which increases/decreases the value will **immediately**

I'd go from "immediately" to "next time volumes are recalculated", but I may be biased since I'm working on it. It's just that then we'd have to bake in a new trigger for re-deploying the orders. It's not a massive problem and I can definitely do it, but since we re-deploy those orders all the time anyway we might as well save ourselves some code complexity.

Author: Agree, modified accordingly.
